---
layout: post
title: I vs We
description: commentary on something fundamental
date: 2020-07-01
published: false
---

_This post is not meant to be political._

The location context here is the US and Canada.

> “As long as you come out on top, it doesn’t matter what happens to everyone else”

## Our Meritocracy

Let’s start off with a huge claim: I don't believe that we live in a meritocracy. As in I don't believe that someone’s success is achieved solely on the basis of effort, talent and achievement. 

It's important to define what I mean by success here. Success in the sense that Jeff Bezos is "successful". He is extremely wealthy, has positively contributed to the economy (debatable) and innovated. The argument here is that his success cannot be solely attributed to his talent, effort and achievement. 

But this might already be obvious. Clearly we don’t live in a perfect meritocracy! That would mean that every child, from the moment they are born, has access to exactly the same opportunities as every other child. This perfect ideal of a meritocracy could never exist in real life. 

That said, there is a tacit acknowledgement in our society that hard work is rewarded with success and that failure is a result of a lack of effort. Another word for this concept is the American Dream. These are the remnant beliefs of a society founded upon capitalistic ideals. Anyone can succeed, as long as they put in enough effort.

First off, this is not an argument against the value of hard work. Focus, dedication, effort and grit are all nouns that are incredibly important to someone’s success, whether it be personal or monetary.

However, these are not the only factors worth discussing. In fact, they might not even be the most important factors at all!

I want to talk about the subtle ways this myth is harming our culture. I believe that it’s useful to explore the other reasons for success, many of which are completely beyond our control and cannot be overcome by hard work. 

## Factors for Success

The story of how to be successful in the US and Canada involves your race, sex, DNA, community, neighbourhood, friends, environment, teachers and so many other things. Despite this complexity, what we tell ourselves remains pretty simple: If you work hard enough you can achieve anything.

> Simplicity rarely loses to complexity in battles in the public square. - Jeffrey Toobin.

I’d like to move to a more grounded piece of evidence here. Raj Chetty is an economist who does research on many things including upwards mobility. 

> Upward mobility: The capacity or facility for rising to a higher social or economic position.

This concept is a persons ability to graduate to another income bracket over their lifetime. Specifically, a higher bracket than their parents.

Talk about The Blueprint here. Our DNA can often account for upwards of 80% of our IQ??

So if we know that some of us are simply luckier than others, then we can consider ways to alleviate that inequality. 

The obvious answer here is who we vote for and our politics. I want to avoid that political question and think more personally about this idea of service. 

## The idea of service

If I've been put into a position to succeed, then I should help others who didn’t have the opportunities I did.

For me, this can take many forms. It might mean helping a friend through mental health issues, making dinner for someone who didn’t have time to make it, volunteering in a public school, donating blood, buying from local farmers, helping out with a food drive.

These things are not political. But they do speak to an ideal or a duty. 

It was well defined on Michelle Obama's podcast in a conversation with her husband the former president.

This idea that it's better/more fun to work for the whole/a collective than yourself.

The Obama's were reflecting on the idea that today's generation is more concerned with their own success than the people around them. The expectation to succeed on your own before helping and enabling other people.

> The motto has become, not that you sacrifice, but that you should be able to have it all. And you should get it. And if you're not getting it, something's wrong.

They also discuss how today's generation isn't familiar with the idea of sacrifice. We're told to follow what we want to do, but aren't warned about the sacrifices to be made along the way.

Obama Podcast Quotes:

It feels lonely to work on things that don't benefit people in some direct way. You're only working for yourself. "I was happier." 
Michelle on leaving her corporate law job, "The years I spent organizing I got more out of it than the people I was helping." 
Barrack on organizing at a young age, "A community connected me to a larger vision, a larger purpose."
"The culture is different today. It keeps beating you over the head with what you should have."
A remark throughout Michelle's childhood. "Never enough." <– you should be satisfied with what you have.
"We've become much more focused on stuff, and much less focused on relationships, family." 
"Part of being an adult, part of being a citizen is giving something up." 

"It used to be that you weren't supposed to have it all. And even if you did, that meant somebody else didn't."
"Cut-throat competition. It's now dog eat dog. It's not us, it's us against them." "And we are constantly nervous about where we're going to be on this pecking order."
How do I protect me? Not how do I look after us.
"How much better it feels when we have other people to lean on. When we don't need to carry this massive load by ourselves."