---
layout: post
title: "2021"
description: some resolutions
date: 2021-01-02
published: true
---

Somehow it's become a tradition for me to publish my resolutions on January 2nd of each year. Looking back at my post from 2020, I can comfortably copy and paste most those of points here.  I’m not sure if that’s a good thing. Items like “Take advantage of sunny days” and “Stretch more often” seem important to keep in mind for 2021.

Some 2020 resolutions I’ve faltered on. Taco Tuesday is certainly not a thing in my household. I have only attended two formal events in 2020 that I can remember. My sleep schedule can barely be called consistent. I have yet to purchase a kendama. Room for growth I guess.

I feel apprehensive going into this year. I’m understanding more and more how discouraging this social isolation is. And how partial I am to human contact. I get so much joy from being around new people.

I’m starting a new job in 2021. Something I’ve been looking forward to for a while. I’m in desperate need of new and interesting work. And I much prefer the structure of a job to the chaos of online school.

In 2021 I hope to take more deep breaths and do more yoga.

I hope to encounter and learn and discuss new ideas.

I hope to carve out time for self-reflection.

I hope to spend less time on my phone

It’s quite disturbing how partial I am towards consuming things instead of creating. Activities like coding have managed to buck that trend, but my habit of writing has suffered. It’s difficult to sit alone without distraction. It’s difficult to focus and _think_. Although, the act itself isn’t that difficult. The hard part is getting yourself there. At every turn there seems to be another distraction to consume.

Then again, it’s easy to blame outside forces for my own problems.

I think that follows nicely into a resolution: Spend at least 5 minutes a day reflecting on something, with no distractions. Perhaps my most ambitious resolution yet.

I would also like to be able to do a standing front flip.


