---
layout: post
title: "2022"
description: some resolutions
date: 2022-01-02
published: false
---

I've missed my yearly resolution deadline of January 2nd. I'm actually typing this on January 3rd, 2022 and you're seeing sometime after that. But I'll still list the published date as January 2nd because I have absolute journalistic freedom on this blog. Beware.

Reading last years resolutions has been a mixed bag.

--> ??? My job has been going well. I've been feeling challenged by the work I do. And more importantly, the people around me are good. I'm in a comfortable environment to pursue those challenges.

My resolution to *create* more and *consume* less has been coming true towards the end of this year. I’m playing more piano and creating little jams and posting some of them on TikTok. I'm also taking more pictures and videos of things.

I wanted to start posting more on my Instagram Story to keep people up to date with what I'm up to/where I am. And to have virtual memories to look back on. But I never think of it in the moment. Sometimes I remember, but I'm too anxious to pull out my phone and start recording. Maybe I should get a fun phone case.

That will be a trend in 2022 I feel. Displaying my personality through my appearance. Like tattoos, cool clothes, jewlery, phone cases, rhinoplasty, etc.

I’ve failed miserably on my resolution to spend 5 minutes a day in self-reflection. The reminder on my phone gets ignored 99% of the time. Ironically, the 1% of the time I do reflect, that time becomes immensly valuable.

It lets me consider parts of my day, how my body is feeling, what to cook for dinner, any pressing appointments. 

It's weird how that works. When I take the time to sit down, with nothing in my face, just staring distantly and *thinking*, I ALWAYS leave satisfied. It's 100% always a good use of my time.

And yet I can't force myself to do it. The transition from phone --> reflecting is so hard. Pulling myself away from that thing is horribly difficult. Playing piano --> reflecting is a bit easier. After workout --> reflecting is easier still.

I think I just need to read this and follow along with it: https://www.chrisbehan.ca/posts/atomic-habits.

Maybe that'll be one of this year's resolutions. Implementing the recomendations from Atomic Habits. Does that make sense? Sort of an underwhelming resolution.

I want to move to Montreal. That one is more exciting.

I want to get a promotion at work. Boring.

I want to run a marathon. Mediocre.

I read 22 books in 2021 and I want to read 23 in 2022.

And, as always, I would like to be able to do a standing front flip.







